[CUBRIDMAN-188] SQL Rewriter : View merge (#450)
CUBRID/cubrid-manual: en/sql/tuning.rst

The following is an example that includes **CTE** (Common Table Expressions) in the query.

.. code-block:: sql

        WITH cte AS (SELECT * FROM athlete WHERE gender = 'M') 
        SELECT * FROM cte WHERE cte.nation_code = 'USA';

Queries that contain **CTE** like the above cannot undergo **View Merging**.

The following is an example performing an **OUTER JOIN** with a view.

.. code-block:: sql

        SELECT * 
        FROM athlete a 
        LEFT OUTER JOIN (SELECT * FROM record WHERE host_year = 2020) b 
        ON a.code = b.athlete_code;

In cases where an **OUTER JOIN** is performed as above, **View Merging** cannot be executed.

The following is an example using aggregate or analytical functions.

.. code-block:: sql

        SELECT * 
        FROM (SELECT AVG(host_year) FROM record WHERE medal = 'G') a;

Queries that include aggregate or analytical functions do not qualify for **View Merging**.

The following is an example using **ROWNUM, LIMIT** or **GROUPBY_NUM(), INST_NUM(), ORDERBY_NUM()**.

.. code-block:: sql

        SELECT *
        FROM (SELECT gender, rownum FROM athlete WHERE rownum < 15) a
        WHERE gender = 'M';

> In cases where Query includes ROWNUM, LIMIT or GROUPBY_NUM(), INST_NUM(), ORDERBY_NUM(), **View Merging** cannot be executed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In cases where Query includes **ROWNUM, LIMIT** or **GROUPBY_NUM(), INST_NUM(), ORDERBY_NUM()**, **View Merging** cannot be executed.
```

> The following is an example crafted using a **Correlated Subquery**.

Reviewer 2: It is trivial.

In the manual, I think it is important to use simple words and write intuitively.
And I think using similar words for similar sentences helps to maintain consistency.

Author: I use 'In cases where Query includes ROWNUM, LIMIT or GROUPBY_NUM(), INST_NUM(), ORDERBY_NUM(), **View Merging** cannot be executed.' instead of `undergo`.

.. code-block:: sql

        SELECT COUNT(*)
        FROM athlete a,
        (SELECT * FROM record r WHERE a.code = r.athlete_code) b;

> For queries using a **Correlated Subquery**, View Merging is not possible.

Reviewer 2: How about `**View Merging**` instead of `View Merging` ?

Author: I modified to **View Merging**`

                9           60          600  'Left- 806'                     6
               10           60          600  'Left- 906'                     6

.. _view_merge:

View Merging Optimization
=========================

**View Merging** is an optimization for reducing overhead that occur during the processing of view or inline view. 
When a query includes a view, there is an overhead of creating a temporary table for that view. 
And it's impossible to perform index scan on temporary tables, leading to performance degradation.
But, by using **View Merging** to merge the view with table in main query, performance can be improved because index scan is available.

> Like *Query 1* below, which use inline views, make it easier to understand the content of the query.

Reviewer 3: How about changing "content" to "intent" ?

Author: The original statement was a direct translation of `아래 질의문 1 처럼 인라인 뷰를 사용하면, 질의 내용을 파악하기 쉽다.`. However, considering your feedback, it seems that 'understand the intent' might be more user-friendly than 'understand the content'. I will revise the statement accordingly.

.. code-block:: sql

        /* Query 1 */
        SELECT *
        FROM (SELECT * FROM athlete WHERE nation_code = 'USA') a,
        (SELECT * FROM record WHERE medal = 'G') b
        WHERE a.code = b.athlete_code;

> If the query is executed without **View Merging** optimization being performed, the join is performed with the temporary results of executing each of the inline views *a* and *b*. Temporary results cannot use indexes, resulting in performance degradation.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
If the query is executed without **View Merging** optimization, the join is performed with the temporary results of executing each of the inline views *a* and *b*. Temporary results cannot use indexes, resulting in performance degradation.
```

.. code-block:: sql

        /* Query 2 */
        SELECT *
        FROM emp a, dept b
        WHERE a.code = b.athlete_code
        AND a.nation_code = 'USA'
        AND b.medal = 'G';

When **View Merging** optimization is performed, *Query 1* is transformed into *Query 2*.

In the following cases, **View Merging** is not performed:

#. Using **NO_MERGE** hint on a view.

> #. Contains **CONNECT BY**.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
#. The view includes a **CONNECT BY** clause.
```

                9           60          600  'Left- 806'                     6
               10           60          600  'Left- 906'                     6

.. _view_merge:

View Merging Optimization
=========================

**View Merging** is an optimization for reducing overhead that occur during the processing of view or inline view. 
When a query includes a view, there is an overhead of creating a temporary table for that view. 
And it's impossible to perform index scan on temporary tables, leading to performance degradation.
But, by using **View Merging** to merge the view with table in main query, performance can be improved because index scan is available.

> Queries like Query 1 below, which use inline views, make it easier to understand the content of the query.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For query 1 below using inline views, it is easy to understand the content of the query.
```

> Queries like Query 1 below, which use inline views, make it easier to understand the content of the query.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Like *Query 1* below, which use inline views, make it easier to understand the content of the query.
```

.. code-block:: sql

        /* Query 1 */
        SELECT *
        FROM (SELECT * FROM athlete WHERE nation_code = 'USA') a,
        (SELECT * FROM record WHERE medal = 'G') b
        WHERE a.code = b.athlete_code;

> If **View Merging** optimization isn't applied, the inline views a and b are processed in advance and stored in temporary storage, 

Reviewer 4: "is not" instead of "isn't." 

: If **View Merging** optimization is not applied, the inline views a and b are processed in advance and stored in temporary storage, "

Author: I modified it. Thank you!

and a join operation is performed based on this data.

> In this case, the data stored in temporary storage can't use indexes, resulting in significant performance degradation.

Reviewer 4: It is better to say "cannot" instead of "can't."

: "In this case, the data stored in temporary storage cannot use indexes, resulting in significant performance degradation."

Author: I modified it.

> If **View Merging** optimization is not applied, the inline views a and b are processed in advance and stored in temporary storage, 
> and a join operation is performed based on this data.
> 
> In this case, the data stored in temporary storage cannot use indexes, resulting in significant performance degradation.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If the query is executed without **View Merging** optimization being performed, the join is performed with the temporary results of executing each of the inline views *a* and *b*. Temporary results cannot use indexes, resulting in performance degradation.
```

.. code-block:: sql

        /* Query 2 */
        SELECT *
        FROM emp a, dept b
        WHERE a.code = b.athlete_code
        AND a.nation_code = 'USA'
        AND b.medal = 'G';

Therefore, the view query block in Query 1 undergoes a merge process with the query block 
that references the view and is transformed into the form of Query 2.

> This is referred to as **View Merging**. Going through this process allows the optimizer to consider more access paths.

Reviewer 2: **View Merging** optimization transforms *Query 1* into *Query 2*.

> Therefore, the view query block in Query 1 undergoes a merge process with the query block 
> that references the view and is transformed into the form of Query 2.
> 
> This is referred to as **View Merging**. Going through this process allows the optimizer to consider more access paths.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When **View Merging** optimization is performed, *Query 1* is transformed into *Query 2*.
```

> In CUBRID, **View Merging** can't be performed if the query meets the following conditions:

Reviewer 4: Same here, "cannot" will be a better choice than "can't." 

: " In CUBRID, **View Merging** cannot be performed if the query meets the following conditions: "

Author: I modified it.

> In CUBRID, View Merging cannot be performed if the query meets the following conditions: 

Reviewer 2: In the following cases, **View Merging** is not performed:

> In CUBRID, View Merging cannot be performed if the query meets the following conditions: 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In the following cases, **View Merging** is not performed:
```

#. Using **NO_MERGE** hint on a view.

#. Contains **CONNECT BY**.

#. The view includes a **DISTINCT** clause.

> #. **CTE** (Common Table Expressions) is included in the query.

Reviewer 2: Does this query mean the view?

How about below?
```
The view is **CTE** (Common Table Expressions).
```

#. Using **OUTER JOIN** with a view.

> #. Using aggregation or analytical functions.

Reviewer 2: How about below?
```
The view using aggregate or analytic functions.
```

#. Using **ROWNUM, LIMIT**, or **GROUPBY_NUM(), INST_NUM(), ORDERBY_NUM()**.

> #. Written using **Correlated Subquery**.

Reviewer 2: How about below?
```
The view using **Correlated Subquery**.
```

> #. The view includes methods.

Reviewer 2: How about below?
```suggestion
#. The view using **Method**.
```
```
Using **methed**.
```

> #. The view includes **RANDOM(), DRANDOM(), SYS_GUID()**.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#. The view using **RANDOM(), DRANDOM(), SYS_GUID()**.
```

The following is an example that uses **NO_MERGE** hint on a view.

.. code-block:: sql

    SELECT *
    FROM (SELECT /*+ NO_MERGE*/ * FROM athlete WHERE nation_code = 'USA') a,
    (SELECT /*+ NO_MERGE*/ * FROM record WHERE medal = 'G') b
    WHERE a.code = b.athlete_code;

> If the **NO_MERGE** hint is used on a view, **View Merging** is not applied.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If the **NO_MERGE** hint is used on a view, **View Merging** is not performed.
```

The following is an example that includes the **CONNECT BY** clause.

.. code-block:: sql

        -- Creating a tree table and then inserting data
        CREATE TABLE tree(id INT, mgrid INT, name VARCHAR(32), birthyear INT);

        INSERT INTO tree VALUES (1,NULL,'Kim', 1963);
        INSERT INTO tree VALUES (2,NULL,'Moy', 1958);
        INSERT INTO tree VALUES (3,1,'Jonas', 1976);
        INSERT INTO tree VALUES (4,1,'Smith', 1974);
        INSERT INTO tree VALUES (5,2,'Verma', 1973);
        INSERT INTO tree VALUES (6,2,'Foster', 1972);
        INSERT INTO tree VALUES (7,6,'Brown', 1981);

        -- Executing a hierarchical query with CONNECT BY clause
        SELECT *
        FROM (SELECT * FROM tree WHERE birthyear = 1973) t
        CONNECT BY PRIOR t.id=t.mgrid; 

> Due to the use of the **CONNECT BY** clause in the above query, **View Merging** cannot be performed.

Reviewer 2: It is unclear whether it should be called clauses or statements.
How about not using these words instead?
It is the same in other places as well.
```suggestion
Due to the use of the **CONNECT BY** in the above query, **View Merging** cannot be performed.
```

The following is an example where a view includes the **DISTINCT** clause.

.. code-block:: sql

        SELECT * FROM (SELECT DISTINCT host_year FROM record) T;

Due to the **DISTINCT** clause used within the view in the above query, **View Merging** cannot be performed.

> The following is an example that includes **CTE** (Common Table Expressions) in the query.

Reviewer 2: There is no need to write down the full word for an abbreviation.
```suggestion
The following is an example that includes **CTE** in the query.
```

.. code-block:: sql

        WITH cte AS (SELECT * FROM athlete WHERE gender = 'M') 
        SELECT * FROM cte WHERE cte.nation_code = 'USA';

> Queries that contain **CTE** like the above cannot undergo **View Merging**.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When using **CTE** as above, **View Merging** optimization cannot be performed.
```

The following is an example performing an **OUTER JOIN** with a view.

.. code-block:: sql

        SELECT * 
        FROM athlete a 
        LEFT OUTER JOIN (SELECT * FROM record WHERE host_year = 2020) b 
        ON a.code = b.athlete_code;

> In cases where an **OUTER JOIN** is performed as above, **View Merging** cannot be executed.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In cases where an **OUTER JOIN** is performed as above, **View Merging** cannot be performed.
```

> The following is an example using aggregate or analytical functions.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following is an example using aggregate or analytic functions.
```

.. code-block:: sql

        SELECT * 
        FROM (SELECT AVG(host_year) FROM record WHERE medal = 'G') a;

> Queries that include aggregate or analytical functions do not qualify for **View Merging**.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When using aggregate or analytic functions in views as above, **View Merging** optimization cannot be performed.
```

The following is an example using **ROWNUM, LIMIT** or **GROUPBY_NUM(), INST_NUM(), ORDERBY_NUM()**.

.. code-block:: sql

        SELECT *
        FROM (SELECT gender, rownum FROM athlete WHERE rownum < 15) a
        WHERE gender = 'M';

> In cases where Query includes **ROWNUM, LIMIT** or **GROUPBY_NUM(), INST_NUM(), ORDERBY_NUM()**, **View Merging** cannot be executed.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When using **ROWNUM, LIMIT** or **GROUPBY_NUM(), INST_NUM(), ORDERBY_NUM()** in views as above, **View Merging** optimization cannot be performed.
```

> The following is an example crafted using a **Correlated Subquery**.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following is an example using **Correlated Subquery**.
```

.. code-block:: sql

        SELECT COUNT(*)
        FROM athlete a,
        (SELECT * FROM record r WHERE a.code = r.athlete_code) b;

> For queries using a **Correlated Subquery**, **View Merging** is not possible.

Reviewer 2: When using **Correlated Subquery** as above, **View Merging** optimization cannot be performed.

> For queries using a **Correlated Subquery**, **View Merging** is not possible.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When using **Correlated Subquery** as above, **View Merging** optimization cannot be performed.
```

The following is an example where a view includes **RANDOM(), DRANDOM(), SYS_GUID()**.

.. code-block:: sql

        SELECT *
        FROM    (SELECT RANDOM (), code FROM athlete WHERE nation_code = 'USA') a,
                (SELECT SYS_GUID (), athlete_code FROM record WHERE medal = 'G') b
        WHERE a.code = b.athlete_code;

> Queries that contain a view with **RANDOM(), DRANDOM(), SYS_GUID()** cannot undergo **View Merging**.

Reviewer 4: It is more clear to add "Optimization" next to "View Merging." 

: " Queries that contain a view with **RANDOM(), DRANDOM(), SYS_GUID()** cannot undergo **View Merging Optimization**. "

> Queries that contain a view with **RANDOM(), DRANDOM(), SYS_GUID()** cannot undergo **View Merging**.

Author: Thank you, I modified it.

> Queries that contain a view with **RANDOM(), DRANDOM(), SYS_GUID()** cannot undergo **View Merging** optimization.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When using **RANDOM(), DRANDOM(), SYS_GUID()** in views as above, **View Merging** optimization cannot be performed.
```

                9           60          600  'Left- 806'                     6
               10           60          600  'Left- 906'                     6

.. _view_merge:

> View Merging

Reviewer 4: View Merging Optimization
